CDIC_typeB_controlkidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata CDIC_typeB_heterozygouskidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata 
podocytes_controlkidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata podocytes_heterozygouskidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata 
fibroblasts_controlkidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata fibroblasts_heterozygouskidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata 
PCTS1_controlkidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata PCTS1_heterozygouskidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata 
endothelial_controlkidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata endothelial_heterozygouskidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata 
DCT_controlkidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata DCT_heterozygouskidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata 
macrophages_controlkidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata macrophages_heterozygouskidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata 
pericytes_controlkidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata pericytes_heterozygouskidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata 
smcs_controlkidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata smcs_heterozygouskidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata 
PCTS2_controlkidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata PCTS2_heterozygouskidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata 
fibro_cortex_controlcortexexpression_PANDA.Rdata fibro_cortex_heterozygouscortexexpression_PANDA.Rdata 
opcs_controlcortexexpression_PANDA.Rdata opcs_heterozygouscortexexpression_PANDA.Rdata 
PT_controlkidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata PT_heterozygouskidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata 
oligodendrocytes_controlcortexexpression_PANDA.Rdata oligodendrocytes_heterozygouscortexexpression_PANDA.Rdata 
PST_controlkidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata PST_heterozygouskidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata 
astrocytes_controlcortexexpression_PANDA.Rdata astrocytes_heterozygouscortexexpression_PANDA.Rdata 
CDIC_typeA_controlkidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata CDIC_typeA_heterozygouskidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata 
DLH_controlkidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata DLH_heterozygouskidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata 
Bcell_controlkidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata Bcell_heterozygouskidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata 
pericytes_controlcortexexpression_PANDA.Rdata pericytes_heterozygouscortexexpression_PANDA.Rdata 
microglia_controlcortexexpression_PANDA.Rdata microglia_heterozygouscortexexpression_PANDA.Rdata 
CDPC_controlkidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata CDPC_heterozygouskidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata 
inhibitory_neurons_controlcortexexpression_PANDA.Rdata inhibitory_neurons_heterozygouscortexexpression_PANDA.Rdata 
excitatory_neurons_controlcortexexpression_PANDA.Rdata excitatory_neurons_heterozygouscortexexpression_PANDA.Rdata 
LOH_controlkidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata LOH_heterozygouskidneyexpression_PANDA.Rdata 
